CONTAINS HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION - SUBJECT TO PROTECTIVE
ORDER

February 18, 2025 Call with Google Engineer HJ Kim

Participants

       •   Google: Hyung-Jin Kim, Jack Mellyn (Google in house counsel)
       •   Expert Prof James Allan
       •   Williams and Connolly: John McGowan and Colette Connor
       •   Cornerstone: Kirti Gupta, Vivek Mani, Chanel O'Neill, and Elias Ilin

  I.       "Hand Crafting" of Signals
       -   Ahnost every signal, aside from RankBrain and DeepRank (which are LLM-based) are
           hand-crafted and thus able to be analyzed and adjusted by engineers.
              o To develop and use these signals, engineers look at data and then take a sigmoid
                  or other function and figure out the threshold to use. So, the "hand crafting"
                  1neans that Google takes all those sigmoids and figures out the thresholds.
                      • In the extreme, hand-crafting means that Google looks at the relevant data
                          and picks the mid-point manually.
                      • For the majority of signals, Google takes the relevant data ( e.g., webpage
                          content and structure, user clicks, and label data from human raters) and
                          then performs a regression.
       -   Navboost. This was HJ's second signal project at Google. HJ has many patents related to
           Navboost and he spent many years developing it.
       -   ABC signals. These are the three fundamental signals. All three were developed by
           engineers. They are raw
              0   Anchors (A) - a source page pointing to a target page (links).



               0    Body (B) - terms in the document



               o    Clicks (C) - historically, how long a user stayed at a particular linked page before
                    bouncing back to the SERP.

                           Things like Navboost.
       -   ABC signals are the key components of topicality (or a base score), which is Google' s
           determination of how the document is relevant to the query.
               o T* (Topicality) effectively combines (at least) these three signals in a relatively
                  hand-crafted way.                         Google uses to judge the relevance of the
                  document based on the query terms.
               o It took a significant effort to move from topicality (which is at its core a standard
                  "old style" information retrieval (''IR") metric)      signal. It was in a constant
                  state of development from its origin until about 5 years ago. Now there is less
                  change.

   Ex. No.
 PXR0356                                                                                      Page 1 of 5
1:20-cv-03010-APM
                                                                          USDOJ-GOOG-00195742
1:20-cv-03715-APM
                                   REDACTED PUBLIC VERSION
CONTAINS HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION - SUBJECT TO PROTECTIVE
ORDER

                     •   Ranking development (especially topicality) involves solving many
                         complex mathematical problems.
                      • For topicality, there might be a team o        engineers working
                         continuously on these hard problems within a given project.
      -   The reason why the vast majority of signals are hand-crafted is that if anything breaks
          Google knows what to fix. Google wants their signals to be fully transparent so they can
          trouble-shoot them and i1nprove upon them.
              o Microsoft builds very complex systems using ML techniques to optimize
                  functions. So it's hard to fix things-e.g., to know where to go and how to fix the
                  function. And deep learning has made that even worse.
              o This is a big advantage of Google over Bing and others. Google faced many
                  challenges and was able to respond.
                      • Google can modify how a signal responds to edge cases, for example in
                         response to various media/public attention challenges:
                             •
                             •


                     •   Finding the correct edges for these adjustments is difficult, but would be
                         easy to reverse engineer and copy from looking at the data.

II.       Ranking Signals "Curves"
          Google engineers plot ranking signal curves
      -   The curve-fitting is happening at every single level of signals. For example:
             0


             0
             0


             0


             0




          If Google is forced to give information on clicks, URLs, and the query, it would be easy
          for competitors to figure out the high-level buckets that compose the final IR score. High-
          level buckets are:
              o ABC - topicality
                     • Topicality is connected to a given query
              o Navboost



                                                                                           Page 2 of 5
                                                                        USDOJ-GOOG-001957 43
                                 REDACTED PUBLIC VERSION
CONTAINS Highly            CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION - SUBJECT TO PROTECTIVE
ORDER

               o   Quality
                      • Generally static across multiple queries and not connected to a specific
                          query.
                      • However, in some cases Quality signal incorporates information from the
                          query in addition to the static signal. For example, a site may have high
                          quality but general information so a query interpreted as seeking very
                          narrow/technical information may be used to direct to a quality site that is
                          more technical.
           Q* (page quality (i.e., the notion of trustworthiness)) is incredibly important. If
           competitors see the logs, then they have a notion of "authority" for a given site.
           Quality score is hugely important even today. Page quality is something people complain
           about the most
              o HJ started the page quality team 17 years ago
              o That was around the time when the issue with content farms appeared.
                      • Content farms paid students 50 cents per article and they wrote 1000s of
                          articles on each topic. Google had a huge problem with that. That's why
                          Google started the team to figure out the authoritative source
                      • Nowada s, eo le still com lain about the uali and AI makes it worse.
           Q* is about




               o   This was and continues to be a lot of work but could be easily reverse engineered
                   because Q is largely static and largely related to the site rather than the query.

III.       Other Signals
           eDeepRank. eDeepRank is an LLM system that uses BERT, transformers. Essentially,
           eDeepRank tries to take LLM-based signals and decompose them into components to
           make them more transparent. HJ doesn't have much knowledge on the details of
           eDeepRank.
           PageRank. This is a single signal relating to distance from a known good source, and it
           is used as an input to the Quality score.
               (popularity) signal that uses Chrome data.

IV.        Search Index
       -   HJ's definition is that search index is composed of the actual content that is crawled -
           titles and bodies and nothing else, i.e., the inverted index.
       -   There are also other separate specialized inverted indexes for other things, such as feeds
           from Twitter, Macy's etc. They are stored separately from the index for the organic
           results. When HJ says index, he means only for the 10 blue links, but as noted below,
           some signals are stored for convenience within the search index.
           Query-based signals are not stored, but computed at the time of query.



                                                                                             Page 3 of 5
                                                                         USDOJ-GOOG-001957 44
                                  REDACTED PUBLIC VERSION
CONTAINS HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION - SUBJECT TO PROTECTIVE
ORDER

               0
               o  Q* - largely static but in certain instances affected by the query and has to be
                  computed online (see above)
           Query-based signals are often stored in separate tables off to the side of the index and
           looked up separately, but for convenience Google stores some si nals in the search index.
              o This way of storing the signals allowed Google to



 V.        User-Side Data
       -   By User Side Data, Google's search engineers mean user interaction data, not the
           content/data that was created by users. E.g., links between pages that are created by
           people are not User Side data.

VI.        Search Features
           There are different search features - 10 blue links as well as other verticals (knowledge
           panels, etc). They all have their own ranking.
           Tangram (fka Tetris). HJ started the pro·ect to create Tan ram to a
           principle of search to all of the features.




           Tangram/Tetris is another algorithm that was difficult to figure out how to do well but
           would be easy to reverse engineer if Google were required to disclose its click/query
           data. By observing the log data, it is easy to reverse engineer and to detennine when to
           show the features and when to not.
           Knowledge Graph. Separate team (not HJ's) was involved in its development.
            Knowledge Graph is used beyond being shown on the SERP panel.
                       ■   Example - "porky pig" feature. If people query about the relation of a
                           famous person, Knowledge Graph tells traditional search the name of the
                           relation and the famous person, to improve search results - Barack
                           Obama's wife's height query example.
           Self-help suicide box example. Incredibly important to figure it out right, and tons of
           work went into it, figuring out the curves, threshold, etc. With the log data, this could be
           easily figured out and reverse engineered, without having to do any of the work that
           Google did.

VII.       Reverse Engineering of Signals
           There was a leak of Google documents which named certain components of Google's
           ranking system, but the documents don ' t go into specifics of the curves and thresholds.

           For example




                                                                                               Page 4 of 5
                                                                          USDOJ-GOOG-001957 45
                                  REDACTED PUBLIC VERSION
CONTAINS HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION - SUBJECT TO PROTECTIVE
ORDER

            The documents alone do not give you enough details to figure it out, but the data
     likely does.




                                                                                      Page 5 of 5
                                                                  USDOJ-GOOG-001957 46
                           REDACTED PUBLIC VERSION
