          CONTAINS HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION - SUBJECT TO PROTECTIVE
          ORDER

          Google Search Litigation

          January 31, 2025 Call with Google Engineer Pandu Nayak

          Participants

                  •   Google: Pandu Nayak
                  •   Expert Prof. James Al1an
                  •   Williams and Connolly: John McGowan and Colette Connor
                  •   Cornerstone: Vivek Mani, Chanel ONeil1, and B1ake Boswell

             I.       Overview/Intro
          Preview of terminology and Google search structure referenced during the call

                  -   Document: Google's name for a webpage. "Document" can refer to the webpage itself or
                      the constructed webpage version Google keeps in its database.
                      Signal: Google uses many signals to come up with the SERP. Top-level signals are
                      aggregates of other signals, called raw signals. Google uses over 100 raw signals. Some
                      signals are developed using machine learning models vs. others that are called, or thought
                      of as, traditional signals. Examples of signals discussed on the call include:
                           o Q* (pronounced "Q star"), Google's measure of quality of a document;
                           o Navboost, a measure of how frequently users (subset by location and device type)
                               click on a particular document for a particular query is a traditional signal. Uses
                               most recent 13 months of data;
                           o RankEmbed, one of Google's primary LLM-trained signals;
                           o Twiddlers - re-rank a set of already selected results
                           o PageRank, one of Google's original signals, continues to be one of the factors that
                               goes into the quality signals for pages.
                             combines signals into a sin le score, which then determines document rank in the
                      list of blue links on the SERP.        - as an early Google use of a machine learning model
                      in its search al orithm.        was taught using a process of




          Review of Debugging Interface

          Pandu typed ''james allan umass" into a Google search window and then called up the internal
          debugger window showing:

                                           showsquery expansion and decomposition process
                         o E.g. umass to be re-written as University of Massachusetts, James is a frrst name,
                              Allan might also be spelled Allen etc.
                                              and
                                                containinga table with list of 10 blue links and corresponding
                      score for each top-levelsignal as well as corresponding total score "Final IR" across all
   Ex. No.
 PXR0357                                                                                                Page 1 of 4
1:20-cv-03010-APM
1:20-cv-03715-APM
                                            REDACTED PUBLIC VERSION
CONTAINS HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION - SUBJECT TO PROTECTIVE
ORDER

           signals. Top-level signals are a linear combination of log of individual raw signals.
           Signals are formulated such that their impact on ranking is monotonic relative to the
           signal.
               o E.g. to compare just two of the signals




                                      provides comparision of any two selected Blue links to see the
           difference in how they scored across individual signals




 II.       Google and LLM
History of Google's Addition of Learning Models to Search

           Google's traditional approach to ranking was in the style of Okapi BM25, a ranking
           function used to estimate the relevance of documents to a given search query.
       -   The first move away from the traditional way of doing things was          (defined in
           terminology above).
       -   Then the transition to greater reliance on machine learning / deep learning - RankEmbed
           (discussed below), RankBrain, DeepRank - to generate signals.
           Google found that the BERT-based DeepRank ML model signals could be decomposed
           into signals that resembled the traditional signals and that combining the traditional and
           ''predicted" signals produced by ML resulted in better outcomes
           Google avoids simply "predicting clicks" because clicks are easily manipulated and are a
           poor proxy for enhancing user experience


RankEmbed and How Disclosure of Google's Information Could Be Used By Competitors
To Reverse Engineer Google Search Innovations

Obtaining Google's ranking signals is not a necessary step to closely approximating Google's
ranking given the availability of deep learning. Deep learning-based distillation is proposed as a
specific example as is Google's own RankEmbed signal.
           RankEmbed is a dual encoder model that embeds both query and document into
           embedding space. Embedding space considers semantic properties of query and
           document in addition to other signals. Retrieval and ranking are then a dot product
           (distance measure in the embedding space)
       -   Extremely fast; high quality on common queries but can perform poorly for tail queries
           Google trained RankEmbed on a sample from a single month of search data. This has
           implications for understanding what a competitor could do with synthetic query remedy.



                                                                                              Page 2 of 4


                                 REDACTED PUBLIC VERSION
CONTAINS HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION - SUBJECT TO PROTECTIVE
ORDER


           Quality of Rank Embed is demonstrated by Google EastSearch product.
                                                                        Google uses FastSearch as
           a RAG (retrieval-augmented generation) mechanism on Vertex AI, Google's cloud
           offering, and the Gemini app, where it can ground responses.

Data Size as it relates to Mimicking Google, Training
       -   Even just hundreds of query/result combinations would allow for an approximation of
           certain Google signals, which could be used to train a 1nodel, such that competitors could
           begin to recreate Google search
       -   For ML models Google has increasingly been using less and less data (90 days, 60 days,
           etc.). However, in general, Google's rule is it wants to deliver the best product for users.
           Therefore, if there is a benefit to using more data, that data should be used until the point
           where using more data negatively i1npacts Google's ability to deliver the best product for
           users.
LLMs for Ranking and Retrieval
           LLMs can improve portions of Google's search stack (e.g. query interpretation and
           summarizing presentation of results).
           Google is currently re-thinking their search stack from the ground-up with LLM taking a
           more prominent role. They are thinking about how fundamental components of search
           (ranking, retrieval, displaying SERP) can be reimagined given the availability of LLMs.
           One consideration is the computation time of LLMs, depending on the use case.

III.       Use of User Query Data in Google Search
       -   How 1nany signals are impacted by user-side data? Difficult to quantify. For signals that
           are impacted by user-side data, some are impacted more than others.

Navboost

           Described as a QD table, a query-to-document lookup table, used in both directions
           containing counts/frequencies of user query activity by document

IV.        Examples of Google Innovation That Proposed Remedies Could Reveal
       Google's development process is responsive to Google's mission to meet the needs of users.
       Google identifies issues and then debugs/reviews to understand what's missing in their
       signals and what can be done to incorporate new information or otherwise ameliorate their
       ranking process.

           Anecdote: An early signal,            measured how many times a link was shown vs how
           many times it was clicked. It was found that this measure was biased by link position.
           For example, the query "currency conversion" may return a perfectly reasonable link in
           position 1, but it might not actually be better than the link displayed in position 2. The



                                                                                              Page 3 of 4


                                 REDACTED PUBLIC VERSION
CONTAINS HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION - SUBJECT TO PROTECTIVE
ORDER
                                                                                      .
       use of        would create a system that reinforced this ranking               1S a
       modification developed by a Google engineer that calculated            while considering
       (and avoiding bias created by) link position.
       Anecdote: Innovation currently in development:



       Anecdote: An issue that was faced by search      engines in the past is content farms. Google
       signal Anchor identified a document's quality in part by how many other documents
       linked to it. Advertisers created large websites where useless content would be created
       specifically to be included in search results, receive traffic, and be able to show ads. This
       problem required Google engineers to develop new signals to promote higher quality
       content.
       Anecdote: It was reported that Google search would return a Holocaust denier as the top
       link for the query "did the Holocaust occur". Google innovated so that reliable, quality
       results appear first. Search engines must consider topics such as diversity of searcl1
       results in a nuanced way - e.g. diversity of results when the qt1ery is "did the Holocaust
       occur?" vs diversity of results when the query is "Michael Jordan".
       Google discontinues some Signals. For exa1nple, when a new better signal is developed,
       if the signal perfonns poorly, or if the efficacy of the signal degrades overti1ne due to the
       evolving nature of the internet.

Contribution to Web Ecosystem
   -   Anecdote: Mobile vs Desktop - As mobile devices beca1ne more pop·ular Google
       signaled to website developers that they would rank websites that offer mobile optimized
       deploy1nents highly for searches performed from mobile devices
       Google also provides information to website developers to help them with SEO (such as
       ways to 1narkup their sites)
       Google also provided a tool to help website developers optimize load times




                                                                                             Page 4 of 4


                             REDACTED PUBLIC VERSION
