Search (incl SGE)
Publisher Controls
Updated April 12, 2024

Ex. No.
PXR0026
(NTK) Proprietary & oonfident1al March 2024 Product POCs· cbindra@ chips@ msleem@ Legal: rile@

1:20-cv-03010-apm
I 1:20-cv-03715-APM

GOOG-DOJ-33825264

Recap of options: How granular should the control functionality on Search be for publishers?

NO new controls

Option #1: No new controls on Search. No change to how existing controls work.
Pubs can opt-out of or limit display of their content. If not satisfied, they can choose to opt out of indexing.
:::i

NO new controls

Option #2: No new controls BUT reposition publicly that no snippet impacts more than display
Pubs can use no snippet to impose a limit on how much content is used for grounding & display Today, positioned as display only

Create NEW SRP wide controls
c:
0

'iii

Option #3: Introduce granularity at content level for publishers to opt out of indexing
Pubs can choose to have sections of their content excluded from indexing, training, and display. (div level no index)

u,

:I
CJ

.!!!

1:1

~

Create NEW SRP wide controls

Option #4: Introduce granularity at display level for publishers to opt out. NEW! Variation Op,tion '#4A
Pubs can choose to have their content excluded from answer-forward features (i.e. Web Answers}, but not from Web Snippets or ranking.
SGE-only opt-outs

Option #5: Introduce a separation of SGE display and SRP display
Pubs can choose to opt their content out of being displayed within SGE features Data would still be used for training purposes

SGE-only opt-outs

Option #6: Introduce a separation of grounding vs training for SGE
Pubs can choose to opt out of their data being used for grounding - Their content on't be used for any retrieval augmented generation

GOOG-DOJ-33825286

NEW: Aligned product recommendation
At the minimum, we should have our current product holding position be Option 2 - do what we say, say what we do,
but carefully
1.

Silently update, no public announcement

2.

Make it clear that no-snippet enables pubs to opt out of more than just display.

3.

Do not say this opts them out of training, as we don't want to get into the details of distinction between Gemini
training and SGE training , and KITE/MUM, etc.

4.

Recommend not saying this opts them out of grounding, as this is evolving into a space for monetization . Note:
Post meeting, there might be flexibility here.

5.

Instead lean into something closer to saying it opts them out display that includes corroboration, and will also opt
them out of having snippets shown for blue links.

If aligned, as a next step, we will work on actual language and get this out before 1/0

GOOG-DOJ-33825290

