Reviewer Type

Reviewer

LGTM / Date

Product

Elizabeth Hamon Re id
Robby Stein
Srinivasan {Cheenu} Venkatachary
Hema Budaraiu
Ph iroze Para kh
Matthew
Grav

ER: LGTM but see comments
RS: ----------·-----LTGM
CV: LGTM with comments

Crystal Dahlen
Lara Levin
Ashley Thompson
Ned Adriance
Meghann Farnsworth

CD:
LL: LGTM
AT:
NA: LGTM
MF

T&S I RAI

Beth Tsai
Michelle Chang

BT
MC

Mktg

Approvers:

RH: LGTM
MW: LGTM with comments

Comms Team

Rossa Hsieh
Mellissa Winter
Winter

HB:
PP:
MG:

Notify:
Rebecca Michael
Heaven Kim

GAPP

Ben Petrosky Christian Wagner

BP
CW: LGTM

Legal

Rich Lee
------

RL: LGTM 6/13

[Majority of content adapted from SGE explainer and approved statements and
background we've provided to press}
How Al Overviews in Search Work
Recently, we launched Al Overviews on Search . In this document, we'll explain how Al
Overviews work, how they can be helpful, and the work we've done to prioritize quality and
safety in this experience.

The fundamentals
Al Overviews use generative Al to provide key information about a topic or question, with links
to dig. deeper and learn more on the web.

Ex. No.
PXR0038
1:20-cv-03010-APM
1:20-cv-03715-APM

GOOG-DOJ-33964302

This application of generative Al has been specifically designed to be helpful for information
journeys in Search, meaning it'sa different experience than interacting with an LLM-based
chatbot. Al Overviews use a customized Gemini model, which works in tandem with our existing
Search systems - like our quality and ranking systems and the Google Knowledge Graph. Al
Overviews are designed to carry out traditional "search" tasks, like identifying relevant, high­
quality results from our index to support the information presented in the overview. illml
To ensure that Al Overviews are high quality, we've integrated our core web ranking systems
into this experience, which are fundamentally designed to surface reliable and relevant
information. Al Overviews are built to only surface information that is backed up by top web
results, and include links to web content that supports the information presented in the overview.
People can use these links to dig deeper on a topic, because we know people come to Search
to find a range of perspectives and to explore the open web.

How Al Overviews can be helpful
Before rolling out Al Overviews in Search, we tested the experience extensively through Search
Labs to help us understand where generative Al can be most helpful. Like all the Search
features that we build, our goal is to help people find the information they're looking for quickly
and reliably .
In particular, Al Overviews are helpful for more complex questions that might have previously
taken multiple searches. Al Overviews help people get to the gist of a complicated topic or
question more quickly, while also provid ing a jumping off point to explore links to learn more. Al
Overviews were designed to show up on queries where they can add additional benefit beyond
what people might already get on Search today, and where we have high confidence in the
quality of the responses. Meaning, they will show up in Search results when our systems
determine that generative Al can be especially helpful - for example, when you want to quickly
understand information from a range of sources.
With Al Overviews, people are visiting a greater diversity of websites for help with more complex
questions. We've found that people who use Al Overviews actually use Search more and are
more satisfied with their results. And when people click to links from Al Overviews, these clicks
are higher quality, where users are more likely to spend more time on the site, because we've
done a better job of finding the right info and website for them.

Quality and safety protections
Al Overviews are rooted in our core Search quality and safety systems, which we have been
refining for more than 20 years to deliver reliable and high-quality information. Some of the key
ways we've worked to promote quality and safety in Al Overviews include:

Rigorous testing: As we do with all Search features, we undertook a rigorous testing process
before launch to maintain our high bar for quality with Al Overviews. We've utilized methods that

GOOG-DOJ-33964303

