Redacted
On Dec 13, 2018, at 8:51 AM, Adrian Perica Redacted @apple.com> wrote:

Redacted
Redacted
It's within this sub-segment, however,
I'm testmg my logic smce the FY19 planning and this MSFT diligence has raised for me
testmg
the relative resource needs for this set of functional ity.
I guess what I'm saying is that I'm getting more attracted to your idea of collaborating on a
knowledge base with MSFT ... or even just outsourcing those queries to MSFT. For instance, in
a perfect world, what are the pro's and con's of just moving a large majority of our
Search/Knowledge OpEx spend to MSFT to let them surface Australian rugby scores or Indian
cricket scores for us? Siri would retain traffic cop functionality that chooses whether its "a
search we should return in our Ul and without ads". Thus, send it to MSFT to deliver the
answer. Alternatively, it's a "search where we users have commercial intent or appears very
long tail". Thus, send to Google. MSFT can carry the expense burden but also get the queries
to improve their service. We build them up, create incremental negotiating leverage to keep the
take rate high from Google, and further our optionality to replace Google down the line.

Redacted
Ex. No.
UPX0240
1:20-cv-03010-APM

Redacted

REDACTED FOR PUBLIC FILING

APLGOOG DOJ-00576506

Redacted
On Dec 12, 2018, at 10:39 PM, John Giannandrea Redacted @apple.com> wrote:
All good questions.
Siri doesn't compete directly against Google search. Jt competes against Alexa and Google
Assistant. The query mix is very different. It's more "sent a message to Adrian" than it is
"how do l prune an Apple tree" There is overlap and googles strength in answering questions
putsus at a disadvantage
Redacted

Redacted
I don't think bing can do better than google search for the search use case unless it spends more

on it or has a better mousetrap. Not having mobile queries at scale is a huge liability for them
since the most important search signal is engagement. But it is not impossible. As we noted
yesterday the reason a better search engine has not appeared is that it's not a VC fundable
proposition even though it's a lucrative business.
Can l imagine that Apple can build a search engine to compete. Yes but it's probably not the
best way to differentiate our products.
-jg

On Dec 12, 20 I 8, at 5:36 AM, Adrian Perica Redacted@apple.com>

wrote:

John,
I was reflecting on yesterday's discussions and got myself tripped up trying to think through the
below logic. If you have moment to ponder it, here goes:

lffolks believe that Bing can't compete with Google since Bing has - redacted engineers vs.
GoogleRedacted I engineersthen how does Siricompete with Google?I presumethe answer is

Redacted
But if the above statement is true for Siri. then wouldn't Bing's path to success iust be a parallel
effort ofmanv concatenated Siri efforts against Google? That is. many small teams working on
specific parts of thequery head, torso and tail clickstream to directly compete against Google?
Bing would need to invest in a large index. but it seems that Google's path to success has also
been by assigning bunches of engineers to whittle awav the clickstream inef}iciencies. Sort of
software engineering "by the yard·'' as you 've described before.

I'm trying to push on how much data we have that objectively shows Bing is worse in areas
where they've made an effort against Google, vs. the perception that Bing must be worse
because Google is unassailable in this category.
Thanks,

Redacted

REDACTED FOR PUBLIC FILING

APLGO OG DOJ-0057650 7

Adrian

Redacted

REDACTED FOR PUBLIC FILING

APLGOOGDOJ-00576508

