                                Logging & Ranking
                                               Redacted
                                               _ _ _@




           Hi! I know this is a challenging time, and so I appreciate this chance to get to talk to
           you . This is a big group and VC is hard . Please don't hesitate to unmute and jump in
           with comments or questions .




                                                                                             Ex. No.
                                                                                            UPX0219
                                                                                          1:20-cv-03010-AP M
                          REDACTED FOR PUBLIC FILING & ABRIDGED
Redacted                                                                                 GOOG-DOJ-16512397
           ranking and search work at a high level-- from my perspective-- and the critical role
           that logging plays in that story.

           Behind all this, I'm selling something. And that something is the idea that even
           though ranking can seem like a needy, special-case customer,
           effective logging for ranking is central to Search, to Google as a whole, and beyond .




                          REDACTED FOR PUBLIC FILING & ABRIDGED
Redacted                                                                                 GOOG-DOJ-16512399
                                   This dialogue is the source of magic




           This two-way dialogue is the source of Google's magic.

           With every query, we give a some knowledge, and get a little back. Then we give
           some more, and get a little more back.
           These bits add up. After a few hundred billion rounds , we start lookin ' pretty smart!

           Search is a bit like a potluck, where every person brings one dish of food to share.
           This a great, big spread of food that everyone can enjoy. But it only works because
           everyone contributes a little bit.

           In a similar way, search is powered by a huge mass of knowledge. But it isn't
           something we create.
           Rather, everyone who comes to search contributes a little bit of knowledge to the
           system from which everyone can benefit.




                          REDACTED FOR PUBLIC FILING & ABRIDGED
Redacted                                                                                   GOOG-DOJ-16512413
                                            Extracting Value Judgments
                     fl/I   We have to translate logged events (clicks, swipes, views, scrolls, pauses
                            etc.) to guesses at what parts of the search page were good or bad
                     fl/I   This translation is a topic ot continous   multi year research A slight
                            improvement in value judgments ys          off a billion-hold tl1e very next day!
                     @      Correlate patterns ol user behaviour with some ground truth • rating data or
                            crust feedback.
                     •      growing UX complexity makes feedback progressively harder lo convert            into
                            accurate value judgments.




           The logs do not contain explicit value judgments-- this was a good search result, this
           was a bad one.
           So we have to some how translate the user behaviors that are logged into value
           judgments.
           And this translation is really tricky, a problem that people have worked on pretty
           steadily for more than 15 years .
           People work on it because value judgements are the foundation of Google search.
           If we can squeeze a fraction of a bit more meaning out of a session, then we get like a
           billlion times that the very next day.
           The basic game is that you start with a small amount of "ground truth" data that says
           this thing on the search page is good, this is bad, this is better than that
           Then you look at an the associated user behaviors, and say, "Ah, this is what a user
           does with a good thing! This is what a user does with a bad thing! This is how a user
           shows preference!"
           Of course, people are different and erratic. So all we get is statistical correlations,
           nothing really reliiable.
           For example:-----------------------------


                                          Confidential
             - If someone clicks on three search results, which one is bad? Well, likely ALL of
           them, because it is probably a hard query if they clicked 3 results. Challenge is to
           figure out which one is most promising.




                              REDACTED FOR PUBLIC FILING & ABRIDGED
Redacted                                                                                                           GOOG-DOJ-16512417
                                         Logs -> Ranking -> $$$
                     •   Rank ing Is an extreme o utlier in bus iness impact.
                     •   Not just one ranking system learns from search logs. Learning from logs is
                         t he main mechanism behind ranking.
                     •   In addition to traditional systems, all major machine learning systems for
                         ranking rely on logs: RankBrain, RankEmbed, OeepRank

                     •   Web ranking is only a part of search, but many search features use web
                         results to understand what a query is about and trigger accordingly.
                     •   Beyond search, many logs-based systems developed for web ranking
                         propagate through the company, to Ads, YouTube, Play, etc




             and here comes the part I warned you about. I'm selling something. I'm selling the
           idea of the logs term keeping the needs of the ranking team in mind. Pretty please
           with sugar on top.
           But the basic reason is that the ranking team is really weird in one more way, and that
           is business impact.
           As I mentioned, not one system, but a great many within ranking are built on logs.
           This isn't just traditional systems , like the one I showed you earlier, but also the most
           cutting-edge machine learning systems, many of which we've announced externally--
           RankBrain , RankEmbed, and DeepRank.
           Web ranking is only a part of search , but many search features use web results to
           interpret the query and trigger accordingly.
           So supporting ranking supports search as a whole.
           But even beyong this, technologies developed in search spread out across the
           company to Ads , You Tube, Play, and elsewhere .
           So-- I'm not in finance-- but grossly speaking , I think a huge amount of Google
           business is tied to the use of logs in ranking.




                           REDACTED FOR PUBLIC FILING & ABRIDGED
Redacted                                                                                              GOOG-DOJ-16512426
