Message
Redacted

From:
Sent:

Hal Varian @google.com]

To:
Subject:

Daniel Russell Redacted @google.com]

5/29/2020 11:46:31 PM
Re: READ ME FIRST

I think that everyone would have to agree that both data and analysis are important. Is there a way to quantify
that.
None of the startups I've talked to said their problem. was lack of data; all of the startups I've talked to have
said that their problen1 was lack of data analysts. But that's an anecdote, not data ....

On Fri, May 29, 2020 at 4: 18 PM Daniel Russell Redacted@google.com> wrote:
Hi Hal - I'll take a look at your slides tomorrow. (Quick scan: Very interesting!)
The data quality effect lS real. Peter Norvig has his own version of this story that's fairly interesting. Rut the
algoritbmjc tweaks (and data tweaks) as you point out, are also a big part of the story.

I admit that I'm not too keen on talking to regulators, but will do it if you think it's useful for the greater
good. (And if you think I can do it effectively.)
Wil l get back to you tomorrow.

--Dan
Redacted

On Fri, May 29, 2020 at 1:06 PM Hal Varian
@google.com>
wrote:
Sent you some follow ups which you can peruse at your leisure,
Meanwhile, I'm very interested in the stats you shared about
URL typos, etc. I attach the article version of the slides I sent you. earlier. Could you take a look at the Britny
part and see if you agree with what l said?
One of the topics that co111es up constantly is the "data network effect" which argues that
high quality=> more users => more data => more analysis => high quality
Though this is more or less right, 1) it applies to every business, 2) the "more analysis" should really be "more
and better analysis".
Much of Google's improvement over the years has been due to thousands of people such as yourself
identifying tweaks that have added up to Google as it is today.
This is a little too sophisticated for journalists and regulators to recognize. 'They believe that if we just

handed Bing a billion long-tail queries, tl1ey would magically become a lot better.
We've been doing a number of presentations to regu1ators on this topic. See 1ny presentation here. I wonder
if you would be willing to do a Meeting with then1 on how improving quality depends more on the
algorithmic improvements (tweaks) than on the big data per se.

Ex. No.

UPX0243
1:20-cv-03010-APM

Redacted

REDACTED FOR PUBLIC FILING

GOOG-DOJ-29903938

If you are willing to do this, let me know and we can set something up. A lot would be stories like the URLtypos and this would be highly secure, so you can speak freely on these matters.
Happy to work with you on this.

Daniel M. Russell
Google Search Quality & User Happiness
Check out my new book: The Joy of Search (MIT Press, \Vinter, 20.19)

Redacted

REDACTED FOR PUBLIC FILING

GOOG-DOJ-29903939

