   Bullet-points for presentation to Sundar.

      •    BERT is a new type of model architecture that can productively scale up deep learning
           models to close the gap or even match human performance in many language
           understanding benchmarks.

                                                                   Redacted
      •    Applying BERT to WebAnswers demonstrates a huge                   coverage increase at
           constant precision in English. This captures           Redacted                 on Assistant
           for WebAnswers, a noticeable distinguishing factor over Alexa. Early experiments show
           that gains internationally are even larger. Answers are critical to the Assistant
           international strategy.

      •    Early experiments with BERT applied to several other areas in Search, including Web
           Ranking, suggest very significant improvements in understanding queries, documents
           and intents.

      •    Any competitor can use BERT or similar technologies. Fortunately, our training data
           gives us a nice head-start. We have the opportunity to maintain and extend our lead by
           fully using the training data with BERT and serving it to our users. This needs multiple
           orders of magnitude more hardware resources (mainly TPUs).

      •    While BERT is revolutionary, it is merely the beginning of a leap in Natural Language
           Understanding technologies. We would likely need sustained investment in these areas
           as these technologies continue to advance rapidly.




                                                                                                 Ex. No.
                                                                                               UPX0193
                                                                                             1:20-cv-03010-APM


Redacted                           REDACTED FOR PUBLIC FILING
                                                                                            GOOG-DOJ-02814408
